---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Performing WODs Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-29
labels:
  - HTML
  - CSS
  - JavaScript
  - WODs
---
<p style="text-align:justify">
The most recent WOD that we completed for ITM 352 revolved around creating an invoice using a mix of JavaScript and HTML. We essentially created five objects to represent items on an invoice (although they were sets of variables, not exactly an actual JavaScript object). Using the prices and quantities of these items, the invoice calculated subtotal, tax amount, and grand total. This was all done by combining JavaScript with an HTML table that was "borrowed" from the source code in the WOD page.
</p>

<p style="text-align:justify">
This WOD was a little more challenging for me compared to previous WODs. Although I have some experience in coding Java, JavaScript has a slightly different syntax, especially when combined with HTML. For this reason, I am happy with my ability to quickly create, assign, and calculate variables as these functions are almost identical between languages. I definitely fell short when trying to write the document.write() code. I am so used to System.out.println() that the syntax of document.write() script isn't second nature for me. I definitely had to think to remember that you can code JS into section using the ${} syntax, but also to not forget to use the \ when trying to print a $ character. I got stuck (which is the reason I got an AV score instead of RX) because I didn't enclose the document.write() content with a ` symbol. I spend a couple minutes trying to debug the problem, but eventually reached the solution. Overall, syntax has been my greatest struggle in understanding JS.
</p>
<p style="text-align:justify">
To prepare for the WOD, I made sure to read through the directions and have a plan of action. I have done this in previous WODs as with all coding, it is important to understand the framework before you jump into coding the project. Also, I made sure I knew how set up the HTML for the assignment. Luckily we went over this in class, so I knew that I can pull the source code from the WOD exerecise page. This helped a lot. I think for following WODs, I want to make sure I'm very confident with syntax before starting. To do this, I want to practice using the function I intend to incorporate in a test file to make sure that I am using the correct syntax and not running into errors. I also want to keep practicing HTML as it hasn't quite become second nature at this point (there are so many different tags in HTML, I don't know if I ever expect to fully know how to code something without consulting with Google for some part of it).
</p>
<p style="text-align:justify">
Overall, these WODs have been great practice in making coding more natural. As I had dabbled with very few languages prior to this course, it has been really insightful to see that a lot of coding logic translates across languages, its more the syntax which takes some time to master. I'm hoping to return to Invoice1 and attain an RX score to help further hone in my speed in coding and solidfy the syntax.
</p>
<br>
<br>